#### Common terms used in the science of learning

Here, we offer lists of definitions that seem useful. Inevitably, for the reasons listed above, you will find inconsistencies here and there. You will need to learn how to deal with the situation.

In the following list, most definitions are taken from the [Glossary of Online Learning Terms](http://theelearningcoach.com/resources/online-learning-glossary-of-terms/); see also the Glossary of "Learning" Terms, Georgia Institute of Technology [(PDF)](docs/learningterms.pdf).

* **ACTIVE LEARNING**: A process whereby learners are actively engaged in the learning process, rather than "passively" absorbing lectures. Active learning involves reading, writing, discussion, and engagement in solving problems, analysis, synthesis, and evaluation. Active learning often involves cooperative learning (from the [Glossary of education terms on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glossary_of_education_terms)).
* **ASYNCHRONOUS LEARNING**: When learners participate in an online learning course at different times. This might also be called eLearning or web-based training (WBT). Asynchronous learning allows learners to go through a course at their own pace and on their own schedule.
* **BLENDED LEARNING or HYBRID LEARNING**: It is an instructional approach that includes a combination of online and in-person learning activities. For example, students can complete online self-paced assignments by a certain date and then meet on-site or online for additional learning activities.
* **COGNITION**: "The mental action or process of acquiring knowledge and understanding through thought, experience, and the senses." (from the Oxford dictionary). Cognition encompasses processes such as knowledge, attention, memory and working memory, judgment and evaluation, reasoning and "computation", problem solving and decision making, comprehension and production of language, etc. Human cognition is conscious and unconscious, concrete or abstract, as well as intuitive (like knowledge of a language) and conceptual (like a model of a language). Cognitive processes use existing knowledge and generate new knowledge. ([For more see Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cognition))
* **COURSEWARE**: Courseware refers to any instructional software that is delivered on a computer.
* **DISTANCE EDUCATION or DISTANCE LEARNING**: Distance Education/Learning occurs when students and their instructors are in different geographical locations and the instruction occurs on an electronic device, such as a computer or mobile phone. The learning can occur in a synchronous environment, in which all participants are connected at the same time or in an asynchronous environment, when participants are engaged in learning at different times.
* **eLEARNING**:eLearning (short for electronic learning) is an umbrella term that refers to all types of training, education and instruction that occurs on a digital medium, like a computer or mobile phone. The term evolved from Enhanced Learning which was actually more encompassing and acccurate.
* **INFORMAL LEARNING**: Informal learning occurs when people have a need to know something. They set their own learning objectives and acquire knowledge, skills and information in their own ways. This could be through asking questions, observing experts, practicing and conversing. It’s the kind of natural learning humans do outside of a structured environment.
* **INSTRUCTIONAL DESIGN**: Instructional design involves the identification of the knowledge, information, and skill gaps of a particular group of people and creating or selecting learning experiences that close this gap. Instructional designers base their learning decisions on cognitive psychology, instructional theory and best practices.
* **INSTRUCTOR LED TRAINING (ILT)**: ILT typically refers to providing instruction in a classroom environment where the instructor and learners are together at the same time and in the same physical location.
* **LEARNING OBJECTIVES**: Learning objectives describe the goals and intentions of the instructor who teaches the course. They state the purpose and goals of a session or of the course.
* **LEARNING OUTCOMES**: A Learning Outcome is an outcome statement that captures specifically what knowledge, skills, attitudes learners should be able to exhibit following instruction.
* **MOBILE LEARNING**: Learning that takes place on a hand-held device, such as a mobile phone, that can take place anytime and anywhere.
* **MULTIMEDIA**: Multimedia refers to the presentation of information and instruction through a combination of graphics, audio, text, or video. Multimedia instruction is often interactive.
* **ONLINE LEARNING**: The term online learning is often used synonymously with eLearning. It is an umbrella term that includes any type of learning accomplished on a computer and usually over the Internet.
* **SELF-PACED LEARNING**: Self-paced learning refers to the type of instruction that allows a person to control the flow of the courseware. It implies the learning environment is asynchronous.
* **SOCIAL MEDIA LEARNING**: Social media learning refers to the acquisition of information and skills through social technologies that allow people to collaborate, converse, provide input, create content and share it. Examples of social media learning can occur through online social networking platforms, blogs and microblogs (like Twitter), online talk radio and wikis.
* **SYNCHRONOUS LEARNING**: When learners participate in an online learning course at the same time but in different locations, it is known as synchronous learning. Synchronous learning allows learners to interact with the instructor and other participants. This is done through software that creates a virtual classroom.
* **TEACHING**: Teaching is a process of educating a person with theoretical concepts and is a kind of a knowledge transfer between a teacher and a student. The role of the teacher is to act as a facilitator of learning by leading discussions, providing opportunities to ask open-ended questions, guiding the processes and tasks and enabling the active participation of learners and to engage with ideas ([source](http://www.differencebetween.com/difference-between-teaching-and-vs-training/)).
* **TRAINING**: Training is an approach used in short and intensive courses to build a person’s skills, knowledge and attitudes on a specific subject. Even though the person has attained the highest academic qualifications, still she may want or need to aquire specific knowledge and skills on a given topic.
* **VIRTUAL CLASSROOM**: The virtual classroom refers to a digital classroom learning environment that takes place over the Internet rather than in a physical classroom. It is implemented through software that allows an instructor and students to interact.
* **WEB-BASED TRAINING (WBT)**: WBT refers to all types of digital instruction in which the learning material is presented via the Internet.